---
order: 3
edition: neurips-19
type: invited_talk
time_start:
time_end:
title: 'Putting the “Machine” Back in Machine Learning: The Case for Hardware-ML Model Co-design'
speaker:
    name: Diana Marculescu
    affiliation: Carnegie Mellon University
    avatar: diana.jpg
    url: https://www.archive.ece.cmu.edu/~enyac
---
Machine learning (ML) applications have entered and impacted our lives unlike any other technology advance from the recent past. Indeed, almost every aspect of how we live or interact with others relies on or uses ML for applications ranging from image classification and object detection, to processing multi‐modal and heterogeneous datasets. While the holy grail for judging the quality of a ML model has largely been serving accuracy, and only recently its resource usage, neither of these metrics translate directly to energy efficiency, runtime, or mobile device battery lifetime. This talk will uncover the need for building accurate, platform‐specific power and latency models for convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and efficient hardware-aware CNN design methodologies, thus allowing machine learners and hardware designers to identify not just the best accuracy NN configuration, but also those that satisfy given hardware constraints. Our proposed modeling framework is applicable to both high‐end and mobile platforms and achieves 88.24% accuracy for latency, 88.34% for power, and 97.21% for energy prediction. Using similar predictive models, we demonstrate a novel differentiable neural architecture search (NAS) framework, dubbed Single-Path NAS, that uses one single-path over-parameterized CNN to encode all architectural decisions based on shared convolutional kernel parameters. Single-Path NAS achieves state-of-the-art top-1 ImageNet accuracy (75.62%), outperforming existing mobile NAS methods for similar latency constraints (∼80ms) and finds the final configuration up to 5,000× faster compared to prior work. Combined with our quantized CNNs (Flexible Lightweight CNNs or FLightNNs) that customize precision level in a layer-wise fashion and achieve almost iso-accuracy at 5-10x energy reduction, such a modeling, analysis, and optimization framework is poised to lead to true co-design of hardware and ML model, orders of magnitude faster than state of the art, while satisfying both accuracy and latency or energy constraints.

**Diana Marculescu** is the David Edward Schramm Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University and the incoming Chair of Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of Texas at Austin (starting December 2019). Diana is the Founding Director of the College of Engineering Center for Faculty Success at Carnegie Mellon University (since 2015) and has served as Associate Department Head for Academic Affairs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (2014-2018). She received the Dipl.Ing. degree in computer science from the Polytechnic University of Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania (1991), and the Ph.D. degree in computer engineering from the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA (1998). Her research interests include energy- and reliability-aware computing, hardware aware machine learning, and computing for sustainability and natural science applications. Diana was a recipient of the National Science Foundation Faculty Career Award (2000-2004), the ACM SIGDA Technical Leadership Award (2003), the Carnegie Institute of Technology George Tallman Ladd Research Award (2004), and several best paper awards. She was an IEEE Circuits and Systems Society Distinguished Lecturer (2004-2005) and the Chair of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Design Automation (2005-2009). Diana chaired several conferences and symposia in her area and is currently an Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions on Computers. She was selected as an ELATE Fellow (2013-2014), and is the recipient of an Australian Research Council Future Fellowship (2013-2017), the Marie R. Pistilli Women in EDA Achievement Award (2014), and the Barbara Lazarus Award from Carnegie Mellon University (2018). Diana is an IEEE Fellow and an ACM Distinguished Scientist.
