---
edition: cvpr-19
type: invited_talk
time_start: 2019-06-16 11:40:00
time_end: 2019-06-16 12:30:00
title: Speeding up Deep Neural Networks with Adaptive Computation and Efficient Multi-Scale Architectures
speaker:
    name: Rogerio Feris 
    affiliation: IBM Research
    avatar: feris.jpg
    url: http://rogerioferis.com/
---
Very deep convolutional neural networks have shown remarkable success in many computer vision tasks, yet their computational expense limits their impact in domains where fast inference is essential, particularly in delay-sensitive and real-time scenarios such as autonomous driving, robotic navigation, or user-interactive applications on mobile devices. In this talk, I will describe two complementary approaches for speeding up deep neural networks. The first approach, called BlockDrop, learns to dynamically choose which layers of a deep network to execute during inference so as to best reduce total computation without degrading prediction accuracy. The second approach, called Big-Little Net, relies on a multi-branch network architecture that has different computational complexities for different branches, with feature fusion at multiple scales. The model surpasses state-of-the-art CNN acceleration approaches by a large margin in accuracy and FLOPs reduction. Finally, I will conclude the talk describing ongoing efforts at IBM for energy efficient deep learning.

**Rogerio Schmidt Feris** is the head of computer vision and multimedia research at IBM T.J. Watson Research Center. He joined IBM in 2006 after receiving a Ph.D. from the University of California, Santa Barbara. He has also worked as an Affiliate Associate Professor at the University of Washington and as an Adjunct Associate Professor at Columbia University. He has authored over 100 technical papers and has over 40 issued patents in the areas of computer vision, multimedia, and machine learning. Rogerio is a principal investigator of several projects within the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, and leads the IBM-MIT-Purdue team as part of the IARPA DIVA program. His work has not only been published in top AI conferences (NeurIPS, CVPR, ICLR, ICCV, ECCV, SIGGRAPH), but has also been integrated into multiple IBM products, including Watson Visual Recognition, Watson Media, and Intelligent Video Analytics. He led the development of an attribute-based people search system used by many police departments around the world, as well as a system to produce auto-curated highlights for the US Open, Wimbledon, and Masters tournaments, which were seen by millions of people. Rogerio’s work has been covered by the New York Times, ABC News, CBS 60 minutes, and many other media outlets. He currently serves as an Associate Editor of TPAMI, has served as a Program Chair of WACV 2017, and as an Area Chair of top AI conferences, such as NeurIPS, CVPR, and ICCV. Rogerio is an IBM Master Inventor, has received an IBM Outstanding Innovation Award, and was part of the team that recently achieved top results in highly competitive benchmarks such as the KITTI and TrecVid evaluations. In addition to working on core research, he had a one-year assignment at IBM Global Technology Services as a senior software engineer to help the productization of the IBM Smart Surveillance System.
